# 9.3.8 Lab - Exploring Nmap

## Part 1: Exploring Nmap

* Start CyberOps Workstation VM.
* Open a terminal.
* At the terminal prompt, enter `man nmap`

* What is Nmap?

        Nmap (“Network Mapper”) is an open source tool for network exploration and security auditing. 

* What is nmap used for?

      It was designed to rapidly scan large networks, although it works fine against single hosts. Nmap uses raw IP packets in novel ways to determine what hosts are available on the network, what services (application name and version) those hosts are offering, what operating systems (and OS versions) they are running, what type of packet filters/firewalls are in use, and dozens of other characteristics. While Nmap is commonly used for security audits, many systems and network administrators find it useful for routine tasks such as network inventory, managing service upgrade schedules, and monitoring host or service uptime.

* While in the man page, you can use the up and down arrow keys to scroll through the pages. You can also press the space bar to forward one page at a time.
* Type /example and press ENTER. This will search for the word example forward through the man page
* In the first instance of example, you see three matches. To move to the next match, press n.

* Look at Example 1.

* What is the nmap command used?

      nmap -A -T4 scanme.nmap.org

* Use the search function to answer the following questions.
* What does the switch -A do?

        Enable OS detection, version detection, script scanning, and traceroute

* What does the switch -T4 do?

        -T4 for faster execution by prohibiting the dynamic scan delay from exceeding 10 ms for TCP ports. -T4 is recommended for a decent broadband or ethernet connection

## Part 2: Scanning for Open Ports

### Step 1: Scan your localhost.

