> Wireshark is an open source packet capture and analysis tool. Wireshark gives a detailed breakdown of the 
network protocol stack. Wireshark allows you to filter traffic for network troubleshooting, investigate security 
issues, and analyze network protocols. Because Wireshark allows you to view the packet details, it can be 
used as a reconnaissance tool for an attacker

## Part 1: Capture DNS Traffic

### Step 1: Download and install Wireshark.

* Download the latest stable version of Wireshark from www.wireshark.org. Choose the software version you need based on your PC’s architecture and operating system.

### Step 2: Capture DNS traffic.

* Start Wireshark. Select an active interface with traffic for packet capture.
* Clear the DNS cache.
* In Windows, enter ipconfig /flushdns in Command Prompt.
* For the majority of Linux distributions, one of the following utilities is used for DNS caching: Systemd - Resolved, DNSMasq, and NSCD. If your Linux distribution does not use one of the listed utilities, please perform an internet search for the DNS caching utility for your Linux distribution.
* Identify the utility used in your Linux distribution by checking the status:
* `Systemd-Resolved` : `systemctl status systemd-resolved.service`
* `DNSMasq` : `systemctl status dnsmasq.service`
* `NSCD` : `systemctl status nscd.service`
* For the macOS, enter sudo killall -HUP mDNSResponder to clear the DNS cache in the Terminal. Perform an internet search for the commands to clear the DNS cache for an older OS.
* At a command prompt or terminal, type `nslookup` enter the interactive mode.
* Enter the domain name of a website. The domain name `www.cisco.com` is used in this example.
* Type exit when finished. Close the command prompt.
* Click Stop capturing packets to stop the Wireshark capture

## Part 2: Explore DNS Query Traffic
