# 21.2.12 Lab - Examining Telnet and SSH in Wireshark

* In this lab, you will configure a router to accept SSH connectivity and use Wireshark to capture and view Telnet and SSH sessions. This will demonstrate the importance of encryption with SSH.

## Part 1: Examining a Telnet Session with Wireshark

* You will use Wireshark to capture and view the transmitted data of a Telnet session.

### Step 1: Capture data.

* Start the CyberOps Workstation VM and log in with username analyst and password cyberops.
* Open a terminal window and start Wireshark
* Start a Wireshark capture on the `Loopback: lo` interface
* Open another terminal window. Start a Telnet session to the localhost. Enter username `analyst` and password `cyberops` when prompted. Note that it may take several minutes for the “connected to localhost” and login prompt to appear
* Stop the Wireshark capture after you have provided the user credentials.

### Step 2: Examine the Telnet session

* Apply a filter that only displays Telnet-related traffic. Enter `telnet` in the filter field and click `Apply`
* Right-click one of the `Telnet` lines in the `Packet list` section of Wireshark, and from the drop-down list, select `Follow > TCP Stream`
* The Follow TCP Stream window displays the data for your Telnet session with the CyberOps Workstation VM. The entire session is displayed in plaintext, including your password. Notice that the username that 
you entered is displayed with duplicate characters. This is caused by the echo setting in Telnet to allow you to view the characters that you type on the screen.
* After you have finished reviewing your Telnet session in the `Follow TCP Stream` window, click Close
* Type exit at the terminal to exit the Telnet session.

## Part 2: Examine an SSH Session with Wireshark

* In Part 2, you will establish an SSH session with the localhost. Wireshark will be used to capture and view the data of this SSH session
* Start another Wireshark capture using the `Loopback: lo` interface
* You will establish an SSH session with the localhost. At the terminal prompt, enter `ssh localhost`. Enter `yes` to continue connecting. Enter the `cyberops` when prompted
* Apply an SSH filter on the Wireshark capture data. Enter `ssh` in the filter field and click Apply
* Right-click one of the `SSHv2` lines in the `Packet list` section of Wireshark, and in the drop-down list, select the `Follow > TCP Stream`
* Examine the `Follow TCP Stream` window of your SSH session. The data has been encrypted and is unreadable. Compare the data in your SSH session to the data of your Telnet session.
* After examining your SSH session, click Close.
* Close Wireshark.

## Reflection Question

* Why is SSH preferred over Telnet for remote connections?

      SSH encrypts data ,ensuring privacy and security during transmission. It offers robust, secure authentication methods, while Telnet relies on plaintext passwords. It verifies data integrity to protect against tampering. It provides comprehensive access control and command restrictions
  
